> Future of Debit Card
Debit cards will undoubtedly continue to be a popular method of payment. What the future holds for the debit card, on the other hand, is mainly dependent on how future cardholders like to conduct purchases. Let's look at these ways in which debit cards are already adjusting to the changing tastes of their cardholders.

1. Taking control
Keeping track of funds is crucial because debit cards offer immediate access to a cardholder's bank account. Although EMV (EuroPay, MasterCard, and Visa) has reduced in-store fraud, it has not eliminated fraud in online purchases or other card-not-present scenarios. Card limits, which allow cardholders to better trace card use and monitor their expenditure, have shown to be effective in combatting this type of fraud.
Cardholders can manage their cards right from their mobile device by using powerful card control apps such as MobiMoney. Cardholders have the option of receiving real-time transaction updates, which will alert them of any transactions made with their debit card.

2. Going card-free
Contrary to popular opinion, mobile wallets are really more secure than EMV chip cards. Built-in security safeguards validate the user's identification before the mobile wallet is ever started, preventing fraudulent transactions. In addition to the typical PIN and signature components of debit card usage, cellphones provide additional protection through the use of a fingerprint touch ID, a six-digit passcode, and the device chip itself.
Debit cards linked to mobile wallets such as Apple Pay, Samsung Pay, and Google Wallet are improving retail checkout convenience while also providing the sophisticated security features of mobile payments.
Mobile wallets make it possible to make quick and easy payments by requiring only a near proximity to a merchant's NFC-enabled point of sale terminal – a transaction that is faster than exchanging cash. Payment receipts can also be instantly sent and saved on the device, obviating the requirement for and inconveniencing the generation of multiple client receipts.

3. Current situation with payment cards
Online purchases are gaining clout these days, and apps like Apple Pay, Google Pay, Stripe, Klarna, and Amazon Pay make our life easier and more cashless. Near Field Communication (NFC), which successfully combines the payment function with the storage and security of personal data, has played a role in making this miracle possible. As a result, we may immediately communicate the necessary information with the merchant's point of sale terminal. Despite significant criticism, this viral banking mechanism is safer than traditional chip cards like EuroPay, MasterCard, and Visa (EMV).
Virtual cards, for example, frequently include an authentication mechanism that requires far more than the standard PIN required for debit card use: you can also strengthen access to your banking system by using a fingerprint touch ID, a 6-digit passcode, a device chip, or strictly defined user log-in requirements. As you can see, mobile banking is growing right now, and we're excited to be a part of it!
Furthermore, because clients are less than 33 inches away from their mobile phone, banking companies are becoming increasingly concerned with phone centricity. As a result, apps, digital wallets, and personal online accounts not only handle the majority of money transactions, but they also serve as the cornerstone for all marketing campaigns. Special offers and other types of marketing must be mobile-friendly or they will not appeal to a significant number of modern clients. Think about whether marketing is an important part of your brand's storey!
Aside from that, today's credit and debit card users desire more personal control over their financial management. This desire is partially met by the ability to establish spending limits, alter the PIN, block the card/account in the event of a'report a loss' emergency, and other services at your fingertips. In turn, card issuers are constantly coming up with new useful features to try based on user behaviour data. Is it any wonder that online banking has grown in popularity?

4. Ready for the future
Cardholders are inventing new ways to optimise the payment process, benefiting not only themselves but also merchants and financial institutions, by connecting debit card information to mobile wallet apps on their mobile devices and utilising apps that monitor transactions. We should not thinking that just because cardholders are migrating to newer electronic ways of payment, physical debit card payments will be phased out completely. Debit cards will continue to be used in future purchases as long as consumers value the ease and flexibility of a debit payment option, whether it is a physical card or a mobile wallet.

> Conclusion
• As a result of this presentation, we realised that there are various benefits to using a debit card; despite certain disadvantages, debit cards are useful and user-friendly.
• We can use our own money from our own account at any time by scratching a card, but the only requirement is that the money is ours and that we have a particular amount of money in our account. • We can also use a credit card instead of a debit card to receive advantages, but we must pay interest.
• We may conclude that there are several advantages and disadvantages to using a debit card, but in general, debit cards assist everyone who wants to utilise money straight from their account rather than using cash.
• As long as consumers value the immediacy and flexibility of a debit payment option – whether in the form of a physical card or a mobile wallet – debit cards will continue to have a place in future transactions.